The second option for storing application state locally is to use RocksDB.
RocksDB as we learned in the previous lesson,
is a highly performing datastore that runs
side-by-side with your stream processing application.
As changes are made in your streaming tables,
the state is stored in RocksDB,
in addition to being sent to Kafka.
The RocksDB instance simply stores the state of the world at that point in time on disk.
If your application were to crash or restart for any reason,
as soon as it recovers it will connect RocksDB
and instantly begin processing records once again.
Because of these characteristics,
it's always recommended to use RocksDB in production.
RocksDB is simple to use and requires no configuration on your part.
You simply need to have the library installed in your machine to make use of it.